Self-Hosting (#468)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/production/self-hosting/checklist.md

---
sidebar_position: 16
title: Production Checklist
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

This page describes best practices you should follow when operating a DBOS application in production.

## Managing Postgres

DBOS is entirely built on Postgres.
Here are some recommendations for configuring a Postgres database to best work with DBOS.

**Use any Postgres** - DBOS is compatible with any Postgres database, including standard self-hosted Postgres, RDS, Aurora, Google Cloud SQL, Azure PostgreSQL, Supabase, Neon, Planetscale, TimescaleDB, etc.

**If using a connection pooler, use it session mode** - Connect your DBOS applications to your Postgres database either directly or using a connection pooler in session mode. Do not use a connection pooler in transaction mode as some Postgres features that DBOS uses (e.g., LISTEN/NOTIFY) are not compatible with it. [This page](https://www.pgbouncer.org/features.html) documents the differences.

**Configure a retention policy** - You should configure a [retention policy](./retention.md) for the workflows in your DBOS application to limit the total amount of storage DBOS uses.

> **Mange the DBOS schema** - DBOS creates tables for its internal state in its [system database](../../explanations/system-tables.md).

Reviewer: Did you mean "Manage?"

By default, a DBOS application automatically creates these on startup.
However, in production environments, a DBOS application may not run with sufficient privilege to create databases or tables.
In that case, the [`dbos migrate`](../../python/reference/cli.md#dbos-migrate) command in Python, the [`dbos migrate`](../../golang/reference/cli.md) in Go, or the [`dbos schema`](../../typescript/reference/cli.md#npx-dbos-schema) command in TypeScript can be run with a privileged user to create all DBOS database tables or migrate them to the latest version.

> Then, a DBOS application can run without privilege (requiring only access to the system database).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, a DBOS application can run with lower privileges (requiring only access to the DBOS tables).
```
It'll also be nice to be more explicit about what privileges should be granted.
